# Update:
This project was created on github.ccs.neu.edu with a team member. The account is no longer accessible due to:
```
This is an automated process triggered by the NUID you provided falling out of our registrar data feed. The most likely causes of this are that you have graduated or are no longer taking a class at Khoury. Per university and college policy, services must end within 30 days of such an affiliation change.
```

However I was able to download this previous project before losing access.

# Image Processor: Version 3.0

Image Processor is a java application that allows users to apply image filters, transformations,
and generate simple designs.

The current Image Processor (Version 3.0) fully supports Version 1.0 and 2.0 functionality.
It introduces a GUI interface that supports all designs, filters, and transformations in
prior versions.

The GUI supports:
 - Uploading an image from a filepath or save to a filepath (via a JFileChooser window)
 - Applying filters and transformations
 - Creating a new design - all prior designs are supported
 - Typing in text instructions
 - Uploading text instructions for image processing.

### Details about Version 3.0 Update

Version 3.0 provides a GUI for users and one new feature: Undo/Redo.
There are two new packages in Version 3.0: "imageguicontroller" (a controller for the new GUI)
and "imageguiview" (a view implementation).
Version 3.0 features a new Controller that is compatible with the IViewImpl GUI. The new
Controller primarily interprets commands from the GUI but may also call upon the Controller
implementation from Version 2.0, "ImageControllerImpl", to deal with a text file the user wishes
to process.

There are slight modifications to prior packages in Version 3.0.
Version 3.0 also features a new element in the imageprocessor package: "ImageFactory". The
ImageFactory allows the Controller to create a new ModelImpl without directly calling the Model's
methods. In addition, Version 3.0 features a new interface in the imagecontroller package,
ImageControllerExtension, with one new method: getModel(), which returns the model the controller
is using. This is for the purpose of allowing the GUI-centered Controller to initialize an
ImageControllerImpl in order to process a set of text instructions. There is a new implementation
of this method in ImageControllerImpl.

## Usage - HOW TO START THE PROGRAM
To use the Image Processor, open your Terminal or shell application, navigate to a folder where you
have downloaded the JAR file for the program, and then type in one of two phrases:

"java -jar ImageProcessing.jar -interactive" for opening a GUI visual image processor application
"java -jar ImageProcessing.jar -script path-of-script-file" for running a text file of instructions
without opening a GUI.

FILEPATHS: If you choose to open a a script text file, you must enter the full filepath of the
text file in the above command line argument. Additionally, within the text file, if you wish to
load or save any files, you must provide the full filepath of where the file should be.
For example, instead of "load image.png" your file would need to state
"load Users/chloelarkin/Desktop/image.png". Each command within the file must be on a separate line.


### GUI Description and Usage Tips - HOW TO USE THE PROGRAM
The GUI includes:
 - A large window where the image will be shown once it is uploaded/generated by the user

 - A menu bar at the top including "File", "Edit", "Run Commands", ""Generate Design", and
 "Apply Filter" menus the user can use to upload, create, or edit an image, or run commands.

 - A text area in the bottom left corner where users can type in image commands
       - More details follow below about how users can execute typed commands

## File Menu
The file menu includes three items: "Save image...", "Load images..." and "Quit". Clicking
Save or Load will open a new FileChooser window where the user can select an image or filepath.
Clicking the Quit button will exit the GUI program with code 0.

## Edit Menu - UNDO AND REDO
The edit menu includes two items: Undo and Redo. The undo button will revert the image to its
prior version, and the redo button will restore an undone image. Each can be pressed however many
times the user wants, but if there are no moves to undo or redo, the user will receive an error message.
If a user saves or loads an image after undoing something, the user will not be able to redo the
action, and vice versa for saving an image after redoing something. The undo and redo options will
be reset when a user loads or saves.
If a user likes, they can infinitely undo and redo the same move.

## Generate Design Menu
The generate design menu includes items for horizontal rainbow, vertical rainbow, checkerboard,
and a flag folder with Greek, Swiss, and French flag options. If a user clicks on a design, there
will be pop-ups asking for more information about their desired dimensions for the design.

## Apply Filter Menu
The apply filter menu includes buttons for all previously supported filters including blur, sharpen,
greyscale, sepia, and dither. It also features a "Mosaic..." button for creating a mosaic; if
a user selects Mosaic, a new pop-up will ask how many seeds the user wants in the image.

## Run Commands menu
Run Commands features two items - "Run Commands" and "Run Commands in Textbox".
Users can type in commands into the text area and then click Run Commands in the menu; they will
run as long as they are formatted in a recognizable format.

 Valid commands in the text area include:
 load full-filepath;
 save full-filepath
 apply filtertype;
 generate designtype.

If the commands are not recognized, the user will see an error. Otherwise, the GUI will display
an image representing the pixels after the last requested modification. Users must type in a full
set of commands separated into different lines, including load full-filepath and save full-filepath
as bookends, for the text area program to run.

Users can also select "Run Commands" in the menu; a JFileChooser window will pop up asking to find a
.txt file. If the commands in the text file are not recognized, the user will see an error.
Valid commands in a text file include:
load full-filepath;
save full-filepath
apply filtertype;
generate designtype.
The GUI will display an image representing the pixels after the last requested modification if the
script runs successfully.


We appreciate the guidance of several TAs in helping us to think critically about our design.

### Supported Filters
* Blur
* Sharpen
* Sepia
* GreyScale
* Dither
* Mosaic

### Supported Designs
* Rainbow (Vertical and Horizontal)
* Checkerboard
* France Flag
* Swiss Flag
* Greek Flag

### Supported Features
* Open image file
* Save image file
* Open and apply text instructions
* Type in and apply text instructions
* Undo
* Redo

## Limitations in Using the Image Processor
To apply a filter, a user must first load or create an image.  To save an image, an image must
be present. If a user attempts to load an image and then generate a design, and then tries to
save the image, the image that is saved will be the design. If the order is reversed, the image
that is saved will be whatever image or design was most recently loaded and modified.
To upload an image, the user must provide the exact filepath from the working directory.
Users must enter text commands in the GUI text area in a format that the Image Processor
recognizes, or an error will be thrown. The same is true of uploaded text commands.

### Package
```java
import imageprocessor.*;
```

### USAGE EXAMPLES


### Applying a Filter
When the Controller instructs the Model to apply a filter, the Model will apply a supported
filter option to its stored image using the below method. Filters may be applied multiple times
to an image, and filters may be layered upon each other.

In Version 1.0 backwards compatibility, the Model may still take in a String filepath and
process that filepath into a 3-D int[][][] array.

**Example: Applying a blur filter - VERSION 1.0**
```java
ImageModel image = ImageModelImpl("images/image.png");
image.applyFilter(Filters.BLUR);
image.saveImage("images/blur.png");
```
Explanation: In this example we create an ImageModel object to hold the original image. Then, we
apply a blur filter to that image. Finally, we save this new filtered image to an images directory
folder as a PNG file.

**Example: Applying a blur filter - VERSION 2.0 OR 3.0**
```java
load image.png
apply blur
save blur.png
```
Explanation: In this example the Controller instructs the Model to create a new object with
the image.png data. Then, the Controller instructs the Model to apply a filter to that image.
Finally, the Controller tells the Model to save this new filtered image to an images directory
folder as a PNG file.

**Example: Applying a blur filter - VERSION 3.0**
1. Upload file with "Open Image..."
2. Click "Blur"
3. Click "Save Image..." and select filepath

Explanation: In the GUI, the user clicks "Open" to select a filepath which is then sent to
the Controller. The user clicks "Blur" and the Controller will call the appropriate method to
apply a filter. The Controller commands the GUI to display an updated image which has been blurred.
Then the user selects the filepath for the image to be saved to, and the
Controller takes care of saving it.


**Example: Applying the same filter - VERSION 1.0**
```java
ImageModel image = ImageModelImpl("images/image.png");
image.applyFilter(Filters.BLUR);
image.applyFilter(Filters.BLUR);
image.saveImage("images/blur2.png");
```

Explanation: In this example, we create another ImageModel object to hold the original image. Then,
we apply the blur filter twice on the existing image. Finally, we save this new filtered image to 
an images directory folder as a PNG file.

**Example: Applying the same filter - VERSION 2.0 or 3.0**
```java
load res/image.png
apply blur
apply blur
save images/blur.png
```

Explanation: In this example, we apply the blur filter twice on the existing image. Finally,
we save this new filtered image to an images directory folder as a PNG file.

**Example: Applying a blur filter - VERSION 3.0**
1. Upload file with "Open Image..."
2. Click "Blur"
3. Click "Blur"
4. Click "Save Image..." and select filepath

Explanation: In the GUI, the user clicks "Open" to select a filepath which is then sent to
the Controller. The user clicks "Blur", and the Controller calls the appropriate method to apply
the blur filter. The Controller then tells the GUI to update with the modified, blurred image.
The user clicks "Blur" again, and the process repeats: the Controller will call the appropriate
method to apply the blur, then commands the GUI to display the updated image. The user then clicks
"Save" and specifies the filepath for the outfile, which the Controller takes care of.

**Example: Applying two different filters - VERSION 1.0**
```java
ImageModel image = ImageModelImpl("images/image.png");
image.applyFilter(Filters.BLUR);
image.applyFilter(Filters.SEPIA);
image.saveImage("images/blur_sepia.png");
```

Explanation: In this example, we create another ImageModel object to hold the original image. Then,
we apply the blur and sepia filter on the image. Finally, we save this new filtered image to 
an images directory folder as a PNG file.

**Example: Applying two different filters - VERSION 2.0 or 3.0**
```java
load res/image.png
apply blur
apply greyscale
save images/blur_greyscale.png
```
Explanation: In this example there are three user commands which the Controller will retrieve
consecutively. After loading the image, it will apply blur and then greyscale. Then, it will
save the image to the specified filepath.

**Example: Applying two filters - VERSION 3.0**
1. Upload file with "Open Image..."
2. Click "Blur"
3. Click "Greyscale"
4. Click "Save Image..." and select filepath

Explanation: In the GUI, the user clicks "Open" to select a filepath which is then sent to
the Controller. The user clicks "Blur", which the Controller hears and then calls the Blur filter.
The Controller then commands the GUI to show a blurred modified image.
Then the user clicks "Greyscale" and the Controller will apply a GreyScale filter to the image.
The Controller commands the GUI to display the newly modified image. The user then clicks
"Save" and specifies the filepath for the outfile, which the Controller takes care of.


### Generating Designs
The image model will act as image generator which will take in a simple design, height, and width
of the image. Then, it will generate an image specified by the user and save it to a file path
specified by user. If there is a design with two or more words, there must be an underscore
between the words. For instance, if a user wishes to generate the vertical rainbow design,
they must write "vertical_rainbow".

**Example: Generating a simple design - VERSION 1.0**
```java
ImageModel image = ImageModelImpl(design.VERTICAL_RAINBOW,1,7);
image.saveImage("images/vertical_rainbow.png");
```

Explanation: In this example, we create an ImageModel object to hold a specified design, height,
and width.Then it will create that image based on the arguments and will be stored in images
directory folder as a PNG file.


**Example: Generating a simple design - VERSION 2.0 or 3.0**
```java
generate horizontal_rainbow 800 400
save res/rainbowimage.png
```

Explanation: In this example, the user provides two commands: "Generate" followed by the desired
design and dimensions, and then "Save" followed by the filepath. First, the Controller will
interpret the first line and tell the Model to generate a horizontal rainbow of the specified
dimensions. Then, it will interpret the second line and tell the Model to save the image to the
specified filepath.


**Example: Generating a simple design - VERSION 3.0**
1. Click "Generate Image > Horizontal Rainbow"
2. Enter parameters into pop-up
3. Click Save

Explanation: In the GUI, the user clicks "Horizontal Rainbow" to select that they wish to create
a new rainbow. The Controller, in response, prompts the user with a pop-up to enter the
dimensions of the rainbow. The user then clicks 'OK' to submit their dimensions. The Controller
receives the dimensions and then processes the filtering of the image, delivering the visual
back to the user. Then the user clicks "Save" and the Controller saves the file to the specified
path.


## Image Permissions:
* License description: http://www.fmsh.fr/fr/college-etudesmondiales/28064
    City Image citation: “Regards Croisés Sur L'avenir De La Finance.” FMSH, 2019,
    www.fmsh.fr/fr/college-etudesmondiales/28064?fbclid=IwAR2-CnFT-kqZAjblXM25EgtQNaJNV_Q3GoSnyrFMepoSeDgPYOkYAdWcI1U.
    Licensing: Creative Commons license
  [Terms and Agreement](http://www.fmsh.fr/fr/la-fondation/27933)
* Sumeet Gajjar gave permission to use his TA photograph
* Jaison Titus gave permission to use his TA photograph

## Team members:
* Chloe Larkin
* Andres Schuchert

## License
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
